He was herded with the rest of the employees into a hallway. The employees formed a crude line. The tension was palpable.
He stared ahead through the hallway. There were too many people for him to make out anything. It was agonizing not being able to see what was going on. The confused din made his headache worse. He wanted to sit down and run his hands through his hair, but he knew he couldn't. He did notice that the line was moving forward. After an excruciating amount of time, he could finally pick out where the line lead to. He could make out a table with a soldier. The soldier had out on the table something that looked like a computer. She was saying something to the person at the front of the line. Moving his head a little more, he could see that the table was at the end of the hallway at which point two separate hallways branched off. He could see that one of the people had finished and were went down the right hallway. The next person he saw was handed something. He couldn't make it out but he noticed that thhe person went down the left hallway. What was going on? It seemed to be a sorting of some kind. What were these Jovian soldiers doing?
As further people were processed, he could slowly make out more of what was going on. The people going to the left were getting handed colored jumpsuits. The first one he could pick out was grey. The next was red. There must have been some significance that he couldn't figure out. Eventually they got close enough that he could hear what they were saying.
"Name?"
"Max Grisom"
"All right, so you are registered as a Titanian, correct?"
"Yes, I was originally Martian but I moved to Titan for work prior to independence"
"Sounds good. If you could please head right down that hallway we have lunch prepared. Apologies for the inconvenience."
Max walked left down the hallway.
"Next. Name?"
"Victoria LeAnn"
"Ok, so it appears you are registered as a Lunarian, correct?"
"Yes, Ma'am"
"Ok, what size are you?"
"Medium"
"All right," she moved over to a box and pulled out a grey jumpsuit, "go down the hallway to the left, there are changing rooms. You'll deposit your current clothes down the chute marked 'clothing'.  Once you do this, there are further signs that will show you where you are to go to await further instruction."
He was next.
"Next."
He moved over to be in front of the soldier.
"Name?"
"Lucas Davis"
"Well," she suddenly took a serious tone. "You are a Martian, aren't you?"
"Yes"
She moved over to another box and pulled out a red jumpsuit. "Go down the hallway to the left. There is a specific changing room marked Martian. Go to that specially marked room. You'll deposit your current clothes down the chute marked 'clothing'. Any personal items you'll put in the bin on the other side. Additionally, you'll need this bracelet." She reached out and put a black bracelet around his wrist.

