Patrick: So I take it you're from Mars?

Lucas: Born and Bred.

Patrick: Ok. I meet a lot of Martians on Ceres.

Lucas: What do you do on Ceres?

Patrick: I run a restaurant on Ceres. Out by where the main settlement is.

Lucas: Ok. So are you heading back to Ceres?

Patrick: Yep. I'm heading back from a trip to Earth.

Lucas: Wow. Earth. I've never been there. What brought you there?

Patrick: My wife is from there. I've been visiting her family.

Lucas: I must admit, I've never been to Earth.

Patrick: If you ever go, be prepared to be in a wheelchair the entire time. You're Martian, so you might be able to handle the gravity, but as someone from Callisto, I was miserable the entire time.

Lucas: What was it like on Earth?

Patrick: It was really weird. It's one thing to hear that everything is heavier there, it's another thing to actually experience it first hand.

Lucas: Huh

Patrick: Her family wasn't too great about it either.

Lucas: So why are you going from Phobos and not directly from Earth?

Patrick: You clearly don't travel much. Mars is so central to interplanetary travel that almost all interplanetary travel connects through Phobos. Also, nobody goes directly from earth. That's stupid.

Lucas: Ok. What path do people go?

Patrick: First, you go from Earth's surface to what's called Low Earth Orbit. Then, you rendezvous with what is called a Lunar Cycler. This Lunar Cycler brings you from Earth orbit into Lunar Orbit. From there, you rendezvous with the Lunar L1 Station. The Lunar L1 Station is a fairly large spaceport, but most of its traffic is to Phobos. From the Lunar L1 Station, you travel to Phobos. Phobos is the central hub that has flights to everywhere.

Lucas: Wow. I didn't know that.

Patrick: Yeah, you're Martian. I don't expect you to know a lot of things.

Lucas: How so?

Patrick: I haven't had a lot of good experiences with the Martians I have met.

Lucas: Why?

Patrick: I am Jovian. While you Martians like to forget this, I haven't.

Lucas: Forget what?

Patrick: I was a little kid during the independence fight. I remember what happened.

Lucas: Oh. You mean-

Patrick: I remember the hunger, I remember the fear, I remember the joyous celebration when Mars finally capitulated. I wouldn't put it past you to know what Mars did when it had the ability to.

Lucas: What-

Patrick: It's easy to die when you don't have enough food to go around. It's also easy to enforce your will if you control access to food. Mars just used the threat of food embargo to keep people in line. That stopped when keen Europans started growing food.
