Phobos Station was silent as Lucas entered. It was a bizarre feeling. Lucas had been fascinated by the immense hustle and bustle of the station when he had been there over 6 months ago. Now it was dead. Looking all around the station showed that things had changed. He noticed one of the gates he had passed had been owned by a Jovian company named Callisto Express. That was not the case now. The gate was now in disrepair. The service desk was broken in two. Paper was strewn about in the area, several pieces of it blackened and burnt. The sign had been taken down. As Lucas surveyed the gate, his eyes crossed over to a poster hanging on the wall. He walked over to it to get a better look. His heart leaped as he recognized it's meaning. "Remember Rho the 16th. Remember Ceres. Enlist Today." It was a weird feeling. He hadn't felt it before in his life. Rho the 16th felt distant from him. It had been over six weeks since his life was turned upside down. Looking back on it now felt strange, like it was a horrible nightmare. Ceres was several million kilometers away from him now. It was far away from him now. Farther away than he now was from Mars. Yet, Lucas felt closer to Ceres than to Mars. He had enjoyed being on Ceres. He enjoyed meeting all of the people on that mine. He enjoyed living with Meredith, Justin, and Andy. He enjoyed the comradarie the work environment provided. All that comradarie and all the people he had worked with were gone now. The Jovians had the facility now. There were not enough farms on Ceres to grow enough food to sustain the population of that mine. All the Jovians had to do was completely cut off the food and water supply and starve out the insurgency. If the other insurgents had surrendered, where were they now? Lucas' stomach dropped. The Martians had not signed the agreement. The prisoners would have been moved somewhere else. They could be used as hostages. The worst place they could be would be back on IO, one of the Jovian moons, and an infamous prison settlement. IO's prison settlement was notorious for its isolation and its awful conditions. It was the closest of the Galilean moons to Jupiter and was highly radioactive having the largest active volcanoes out of the entire Solar System. Escape would mean death by radiation. Even being in the prison there supposedly was a higher than recommended amount of radiation. Were Meredith and Justin on IO because of his actions? The thought weighed heavily on him. As he walked towards one of the exits, he passed by the shops that were selling travel items. One shop he noticed had been badly burnt. He didn't remember what they had sold nor their name, but he knew who did it and why. As he continued along, he noticed that the poster he had seen was ubuquitous. Evidently, the impact of what had happened on Ceres was felt here. There were several other shops and gates he passed along the way that were destroyed and burnt. The more gates he passed, the greater unease he felt about the abandoned spaceport. After almost a half hour Lucas came to spaceport exit. The sound that erupted in front of him startled him, catching him like a deer in the headlights.

"Lucas Davis, how did you escape from the M2C Mine?"
"Lucas Davis, you described to an OTC events that are not what was reported by the Jovians, particularly in their declaration of war. Would you care to clarify what you have said?"
"Lucas, are there other survivors you managed to bring along with you on the commandeered Carpo vessel?"
Lucas was in front of an entire Paparazi of people. Everyone was aiming a camera at him.





