Lucas would remember what happened that day for the rest of his life. He was walking through a marketplace several kilometers away from his parent's home.
It was two days after he had travelled down from his college dorm at the New Paris Institute of Technology to his parent's home in Neuer Strasbourg. He was
there to celebrate establishment day, the anniversary of the first settling of Mars 625 years ago and the start of the new Martian Year. It had been a rather
enjoyable holiday and Lucas was getting nervous about the mountain of homework that he was going to have to confront once the week was done. It was a Deimday,
named after Mars' second moon Deimos, and it was late in the afternoon. Lucas was out purchasing groceries, talking to a shopkeeper, when a food stand about
50 meters away exploded. The marketplace had been crowded with people. There were parents with young children who were walking by. Lucas was far enough away
that he was not injured, though he felt the blast. He was lucky not to have been trampled by the fleeing crowd around him. He was pushed into the stall and 
stayed there until the crowd had sufficiently dispersed. He got up to leave and just so happened to glance towards the explosion. It was a bloody mess.

Lucas did not know what to do. There were injured and there were dead. He did not know any medicine. He picked up his phone and called French authorities.
It was not long before the French paramedics were on the scene. He left as the paramedics were dealing with the wounded.

As he was walking home he received a call from his mother "Lucas, are you all right? I heard there was a bomb."
"Yes, mother," he replied, "I'm fine. I'm uninjured"
"Oh," his mother sighed, "I was so worried about you."
"Are you at home?" He asked.
"Yes, I was listening to the news. Horrific."
"Yes, I know, I was there."
There was a pause for a moment as the news sank in.
"Are you heading home right now?" She asked.
"Yes. I love you mom. I'll be home in a few minutes."

He made his way to the city tram. One of the stops was several blocks away from where he was at. His parent's home was close to one of the stops on the main tram. 
As he neared the stop, he happened to walk past a French police officer. He only noticed it before he was too late. He immediately regretted travelling this way.

"Stop, German," the officer commanded in French. Lucas' family was German. He had grown up when Neuer Strasbourg and several other cities happened to be in Germany.
That had changed during the war several years back. Now he lived in France. The city was a mix of French and Germans, but it was clear who was in charge. Ever
since the war, the French wanted to make their newly conquered cities French. They changed all of the signs that had been in German to French. Speaking German in
public was considered a criminal offence and carried a fine of 50 Schiaparellis. All Germans were required to wear a black A on their clothes for 'Allemand' to be
effectively identified in public. They wanted the German population living there to leave.

Lucas knew why he had been stopped. Trying to remain calm, he raised both his hands into the air. The bomb that had gone off was in the mostly French section of 
the city. Even if it hadn't happened there, the German population was always under suspicion. "Where are you going?" The officer asked.

"I'm heading to the Tram, one of the stops puts me close to my house," Lucas responded nervously.

"German, there was a bomb that went off earlier today. Do you know anything about that? You are traveling away from that place."

"I saw the bomb go off."

"You fled the scene of the crime?"

"No sir, I called the authorities and left afer the paramedics arrived."

"I'm going to need to see your papers, German."

"Ok, I'm getting my papers, sir," Lucas slowly moved his hands to his pockets and retreived his documentation. He was careful not to make quick movements. After
getting the documents from out of his pocket, he resumed his hands up position.

The officer slowly walked up to him. Lucas handed the officer his papers. The officer inspected the documents. The thought raced through his mind that he might
not have the correct documents, but the officer handed his documents back.

"Cause no trouble," the officer said.

"Thank you, sir," Lucas said instinctually.

Lucas breathed a sigh of relief and resumed his course towards the Tram stop. He got dirty looks from several people already onboard the tram. He found a seat near 
the back where nobody else was and collapsed into it. He was far enough away from the French at the front of the train that he was unable to hear what they were
saying. He was glad about that.

His mother greeted him at the door. Hugging him tight. "I was so worried about you," she said. They embraced for a minute. Afterwards, his mother went back to her
work. Lucas went to his bedroom. The events of the day made him want to cut his trip short. He packed all of his belongings in his bag. Afterwards he lay in his bed,
mind wandering. He knew why the bomb went off. There was a group of German partisans who wanted to return to Germany. 
