James Larsen
8/26/2015
The Intrepid
Chapter 1
        The light flashed on the display. Something was orbiting around Juno. Asteroids as small as Juno were very small and were not used very much. Smaller asteroids did not have the gravity to make for decent human habitation, which made mining settlements more complicated and less appealing to miners. He looked again at the screen. It was very odd. He flew the ship in the direction of the asteroid. He was investigating the area as part of a mission to find good asteroids around the area to mine, when the satellite caught his attention.
        It took an eternity to arrive at Juno. The asteroid slowly grew larger as his little ship approached. Glancing at the screen the scanner was eventually able to calculate the trajectory of the satellite and identify what it was. It was a Deimos class ship. It had a massive cylindrical body that was tapered at the front. Two massive nacelles jutted out horizontally on either side at the back of the body. It had been previously used as a transport ship by Martian miners, but that was not for several years. It had been phased out in favor of the much more cargo efficient Ceres class.
        He steered his ship so as to fall into orbit over Juno. The computer calculated the correct trajectory and speed. As the ship started to orbit Juno, he steered the ship so as to rendezvous with the Deimos class ship. As the ship approached, he slowly started to discern its other details. “MSV Intrepid, FN 35296,” he read. He also could make out the now outdated Martian Planetary Government logo on the side of the ship just below its name. After getting within 25 meters of the Intrepid, he found the ship’s port and docked with it.
        “All systems offline,” the computer showed, “atmospheric pressure: 1 atm, temperature: -10°C, radiation levels: normal, air: elevated CO2 levels, trace amounts of cadaverine, lifesigns: none.” He went into the back of his ship and retrieved his suit.
***
        He took his first step onto the Intrepid. It was pitch black. The hair on the back of his neck started to rise. He activated his lights and could make out that he was in the crew section. He made a right turn towards what he guessed was the engineering section of the ship. “Perhaps I can get Auxiliary Power online.” 
        The first thing he noticed about the ship was that it was empty. There were no signs of any bodies or of any human presence he could see. There were no signs that there was ever anyone on board. Due to the ship being pitch black, he had immense trouble navigating. The hallways and corridors formed a labyrinth of corridors and rooms. Before long, he realized that he was lost. After what felt like hours, he finally came across the elevator shaft.
        Using his laser cutter, he cut a hole in the elevator door. The engineering section of Deimos class ships was accessible from decks 3-5 as the computer had told him.