Tritanium Sample: Space Flight Conversation
Created by James Larsen
“Europan Interplanetary Spacelines Flight number 29873 to Ceres is now boarding at gate 38. Now boarding economy seats 50 to 75.” He glanced down at his ticket. 56. Time to go. This was his first spaceflight. He’d dreamed about being in space since he was a child and now that he had the chance to go, he felt like a kid in a candy shop. As he waited in line, he stared through one of the windows where beyond it, another ship was getting prepared. It was a Deimos A342. It was the most gorgeous ship he’d ever seen. A sleek cylindrical body that tapered at the front was at the center and there were two struts that protruded from the both sides of the main body that connected the body to two massive nacelles.
        “Ticket please.” He had been so distracted by the ship that the he had failed to notice that there were no people in front of him in line. He moved up to the desk and gave the attendant his ticket. He went through the door to the hallway, managing to catch up to the other people in front of him in line. As he was escorted to his seat on the spacecraft, he glanced around at the interior of the humble spacecraft he had found himself in. 
It was an older ship. A Carpo ES8720. It had all the hallmarks of Europan engineering; economical, not necessarily comfortable. He didn’t care though. It was his first time in space, who cares if it’s not as comfortable? The marvel of traveling between worlds had yet to dissipate.
He was seated in a seat next to the aisle. He placed his bags in the compartment below the seat in front of him. He relaxed into his seat. A man came up along the aisle until he was right next to his seat. “Seat 57,” the man said, showing his ticket. “Oh, sorry.” He moved his legs to let the man into the seat.
He looked at the compartment on the back of the seat in front of him. It contained a thick booklet that had “IMPORTANT SAFETY INFORMATION” on the cover in bold letters. He picked the booklet out of its holder and thumbed through its pages. There were some illustrations of the ship, some illustrations on how to properly put on a space suit in the case of a hull breach, and some illustrations of how to properly place on a O2 mask.
“So is this your first time in space?” The man asked.
“Yep. How can you tell?” He responded.
“Your look of wonderment at this ship. There are better ships.” 
“I know that. I can’t have fun with space travel?”
“You’ll get used to it.”
“Perhaps.”
“Anyways. So I take it you’re from Mars?”
“Yep. Born and raised. You?”
“My parents were born on Europa but they moved to Callisto when I was about 2.”
“Oh cool. Do you like Callisto?”
“No.”
“Oh. Ok. By the way, what’s your name?”
“Patrick Jensen. Yours?”
“Lucas Davis. What are you going to Ceres for?”
“My job. I repair mining equipment.”
“How long have you been doing that for?”
“4 years. I’m heading back after a vacation.”
“Where at?”
“My wife is terran, so we’ve been on earth for a few months visiting her family.”
        “Really, I’ve never been to earth what’s it like?”
        “I don’t really like it there. Everything is so much heavier. There’s too many wide open spaces. The environment is not as controlled. It was a miserable experience. Breathing outdoors without a suit is weird. Also, the culture there is completely different.”
        “Really? What’s so different about the culture?”
        “Terrans view anyone who’s not from earth or luna as elitist and naive. They view everyone as being Martian even if they’ve never set foot on Mars or if they have a dislike of Martian economic dominance. For them, the Jovian Moon Coalition and the Martian Planetary Government are the exact same thing.”
        “So are Terrans resentful of Martian economic dominance?”
        “They just don’t care. They are much more economically self sufficient. The air there is breathable and agriculture there is a lot less complicated. Also, they don’t have nearly the same infrastructure as the Martian Planetary Government does, so they have a much greater difficulty trading with anyone who’s not Lunarian.”
        “Ok. I heard that they use a different calendar system there than the Martian one, is that correct?”
        “Yes. They use...I think it is the Gregorian Calendar system. They count years every 365 earth days, whereas the Martian system counts years every 672 days or 665 days if it’s a short year. I suppose it’s to be expected. They are more reliant on the seasons than non terrans are so they would have no reason to adopt the Martian system.”
        “Why do Callisto, Europa, Ganymede, and everyone else use the Martian system?”
        “If I was to speak for Callisto, I’d probably note that Callisto was a Martian colony until 16 years ago and that there’s no real point in switching.”
        “Speaking of Infrastructure. What infrastructure does Callisto have?”
        “Since Callisto is a moon with no natural satellites, it does not have the advantage that Mars has of building a transit system directly to a natural satellite, so our transit system is has a smaller capacity. It certainly beats earth’s though. It also is not as big of a gravity well as Mars is so that does balance out some of its weaknesses. Although, since the JMC formed, Europa, Callisto, and Ganymede have focused a lot on infrastructure. 
        “Speaking of the JMC, I’d like to hear your thoughts on the diplomatic relationships with Titan. All the people who I knew were fearful of them banding together with the JMC and that it could disrupt the balance of power.”
        “If they do, I’d be ok with it, but then again, I’m a Jovian, so I’d like to see Mars get taken down a few pegs. I don’t think that the Titan government will band together with the JMC just yet given their relative youth, though. They’d be intimidated by the Martians. Perhaps if Mars was actually taken down a peg, the Titanians would join, but I don’t see that happening anytime soon.“
        Lucas stopped. It hadn’t occurred to him that Titan would be intimidated by Mars into not joining with the JMC. All he’d known through his discussions with his peers on Mars was about Titan had established its own independence.
        “So, what are you going to Ceres for?” Patrick inquired.
        “Chemical Engineering. I’m heading on site to a mine.”
        “Where did you study?”
         “New Paris Institute of Technology. I just graduated last year.”
        “You are from France?”
        “Yes, but my family’s German. We live in the occupied territory that was ceded to France the war 5 years ago.”
        “Oh. I heard about something about that. There was a terrorist attack. Correct?”
        “Yes. I actually was there at the time. Some German nationalists set up a bomb in a marketplace. I helped move the bodies...” Lucas trailed off lost in thought.
        “Sorry to hear that.”
        “It’s fine. Funny thing about that was the riot afterward. But anyway.”
        “This is your captain speaking. We’ll be departing for Ceres shortly. Please look forward as the attendants demonstrate important safety instructions. During the first three hours of the flight, please stay in your seat as we start our initial acceleration. Please keep all your personal belongings stored and secured in the compartment. In the event of loss of oxygen, an O2 mask will be ejected from the ceiling. Place the O2 mask on and draw the elastic over your head and note that oxygen is flowing.” The attendants were holding the gas mask and demonstrating as the captain was talking. ”Secure yourself before you attempt to help anyone else. In the case of loss of cabin pressure, pressurized suits are found in the compartment below. O2 Masks will deploy; secure the O2 mask before putting on the pressurized suit. Thank you for your flying Europa Inteplanetary Spacelines, the time is 11:34, the date is the 23rd of Kappa, 625. Our flight is on time for the 16th of Lambda.” A clock above the hallway read 11:34 23.10.625.
        “So, Ceres is actually my second choice,” Lucas said. “I just graduated and had applied to various positions on Mars, Phobos Station, Ceres and other asteroids, and got an offer for an onsite position on Ceres. I took it. I’d rather work on Phobos Station, but Phobos Station is really hard to get into.”
        “How come?” Patrick said.
        “Everyone who’s anyone wants a job on Phobos Station. It’s the pride of Mars. A reflection of the genius of Martian Engineering. There’s two people who want a job there for every one person who can be there.”
        “I’ll tell you what. Phobos Station is probably the biggest marvel humankind has ever accomplished. Changing the orbit of a moon to geostationary orbit and creating an elevator to move directly to it without the need for rockets was the most complicated engineering project humanity has ever done.”
        “It’s also the interplanetary spacecraft lab. Even non-Martian corporations use the labs to prototype and test their spacecraft designs and propulsion systems. It’s also the biggest spaceport. The whole time I’ve been up here waiting for this flight has been breathtaking.”
        “This is your captain speaking. We have detached from the station and are presently waiting for our orbital glidepath. In several minutes the attendants will come around to ensure everyone is properly in their restraints for acceleration. Please note that until we have stopped accelerating, we will need you to stay in your safety restraints unless there is an emergency, in which case, please notify an attendant. In the case of the loss of cabin pressure, the restraints have been programmed to release you to enable you to secure your oxygen and pressure suits. In addition, the spacecraft has been programmed to stop accelerating immediately in the case of loss of cabin pressure.”
        Lucas had already secured himself in the restraint prior to the captain’s insistence. The reason for the restraints was in the extreme force of acceleration that most ships provided, especially on initial activation. He waited quietly as several minutes passed.
        “This is your captain speaking. We are in proper orbital position and will begin acceleration in thirty seconds. Once again, ensure that your restraint is securely fashioned and enjoy your ride. Accelerating in 10...9...8...7...6...5...4...3...2...1...0. Beginning acceleration”
        It was a feeling Lucas had never felt before. It was awesome. His entire body was pushed backwards into his seat as the ship pushed him from behind.
*        *        *
        It was three hours after the initial acceleration that the acceleration came to a halt. By the time it came to a halt, Lucas had gotten used to the acceleration and the loss of acceleration felt weird.
        “Hello, this is your captain speaking. We are now in the proper orbital path to intersect with Ceres in 3 weeks. You are now free to move about the cabin. In the case of emergency while not accelerating, you will be given proper instructions over the intercom. Food and Drink are provided in the area above your present positions. Beds are also provided above your present positions. While on this flight, you are also expected to engage in a minimum of two hours in the exercise room per day. Other forms of entertainment are provided in the back. If you need directions or other forms of assistance, please signal to an attendant. Thank you and have a nice trip.”
________________


Appendix
General
This document is a proof of concept to explain as much of the world of Tritanium as I can. The dialogue may be contrived, but it goes into details about various different concepts that are present in this world. It’s also as dense as it can be about the world, because that’s what I’ve intended to do with it.


The Martian Calendar System
There are several lines about how the calendar system that the characters use is different than the calendar system Earth uses. The calendar system used by Mars is one that I created with help from external resources (thank you google) and by analyzing the mathematics behind them. It’s also the most recent creation. It was done to add what I feel is more realism to the world of Tritanium. The calendar system can be difficult to completely understand even with the context clues. To assist in this, I’ll give a proper explanation of what the calendar system is. The Martian calendar is split into 24 months where each month is denoted by a letter in the Greek alphabet. Alpha is one, Beta is two, and so forth until Kappa, which is ten, and Lambda, which is eleven, and so forth until Omega, which is twenty-four. Each month is usually composed of 28 days of four weeks each. However, this results in years of 672 days, which is around 3 days too many for a Martian Year. To compensate for this, in a similar way to the way we do leap years, the Mars calendar has short years with one less week in one of the months, making a short year last only 665 days. In addition to this, Martian years are what people refer to when talking about years. So from our perspective, when a person says that they’ve been doing something for 3 years, to us it would be more like they have been doing something for approximately 6 years. Also, the days they are referring to are Sols, not earth days, which have different lengths.


Another part of the calendar that was not touched on during the conversation was how the weeks and their days are named. Since Mars is more involved in the rest of the solar system, the names of their days of the weeks all refer to celestial bodies in the solar system. The names of the weekends are the same as they are in english on Earth (Sunday and Saturday) because they can both be thought of as referring to the Sun and Saturn respectively. The Earth has its moon (referred to by extraterrestrials as Luna since calling it the moon is Earth centric, which doesn’t make sense since they are extraterrestrials and deal with plenty of moons) which goes into Monday AKA Moon Day. Mars has two moons Phobos and Deimos, and so Monday for Mars translates into two days: Phobday (Phobos Day or earth english Monday) and Deimday (Deimos Day or earth english Tuesday. In German, Tuesday is Deinstag, so it sounds similar). The subsequent days are for the planets: Venday (Venus day or earth english Wednesday. It also sounds somewhat similar to Wednesday, so it sort of fits), Terraday (Terra day, Earth day, or earth english Thursday. Which shares T at the beginning of the word Thursday), and finally Juptday (Jupiter day, or earth english Friday). This day system skips Mars, but Phobos and Deimos are both days, so Martian vicinity is not ignored. 


Planets and/or Celestial Bodies and their roles in context
Just as an explanation for those who are not aware, the various celestial bodies that are referred to are in various different places in the solar system and it can be confusing if you are unaware of some astronomy. Here’s an brief explanation of where everything is and how they are referenced.
1. Mercury
2. Venus
3. Earth
   1. Citizens of earth are called Terrans
   2. It is politically a backwater and isolationist
   3. Luna (Earth’s moon)
      1. Citizens of Luna are called Lunarians
      2. Luna is allied with Mars and is closest to Mars in productivity and in ability to put objects into space (it was colonized around the same time as Mars was)
      3. It has the closest relationship with Earth and is therefore in a complex political situation when it comes to Earth-Extraterrestrial relations
1. Mars
   1. Citizens of Mars are called Martians
   2. The main government is the Martian Planetary Government (abreviated as the MPG)
      1. Similar to the UN, but a little more powerful
      2. Similar to the Federal system in the United States but not as centralized
      3. Member states do not always get along with each other
         1. There have been wars in the past
         2. The Franco-German war was the most recent conflict with Germany losing and being required to cede valuable resource rich territory to France
      1. Most of the states are divided by Earth ethnic and cultural lines
   1. Mars was the first planet to be colonized although it was colonized around the same time as Luna was
      1. It was also the only time that colonizing forces were composed of a majority of Terrans (aside from Luna, of course)
      2. The colonizing forces after Mars have mainly been from Mars or Luna
   1. Mars was the first interplanetary superpower, being a major force in all other colonization efforts
      1. This has resulted in some resentments from celestial bodies colonized after Mars
      2. Martians have a tendency to have more leverage in economic deals, making Martians economically dominant in trade
      3. However, the time period that the characters are in has seen a contesting of this economic dominance through the new Jovian Moon Coalition (explained below)
   1. Phobos Station
      1. Phobos is the largest moon of Mars and it’s also the closest.
      2. The Martians have mined out large sections of this moon and have replaced them with various research labs, commercial enterprises, and docking stations.
      3. Martians have also placed rockets in the moon to change its orbital trajectory, slowing it down and placing it into geostationary orbit while also ensuring that its orbital path doesn’t decay. (this was done to create the counterweight for the Martian space elevator network)
      4. There are several space elevators (not referred to as space elevators by the characters, but they are nonetheless space elevators) that connect facilities on the Martian surface to Phobos.
      5. Phobos Station is one of the biggest reasons why Mars is so dominant in Solar System affairs
   1. Deimos
      1. Also a station
      2. Not connected to Mars by Space Elevator, so it’s not as economically important
      3. Most flights to and from Deimos are to and from either Phobos Station or Mars
      4. Provides the name of a class of cargo ship
1. Asteroid Belt objects
   1. Ceres Station
      1. The largest asteroid in the belt
      2. Originally established by Mars
         1. Most of the Mines on Ceres are owned by Martian Corporations
         2. A growing hotbed of political and economic tension between the Jovian Moon Coalition and the Martian Planetary Government and its allies
   1. Vesta
      1. Second largest asteroid in the belt
      2. Most mines are owned by Martian Corporations
      3. Also a growing hotbed of political and economic tensions between the MPG and the JMC though not as focused on as Ceres
   1. Pallas
      1. Third largest asteroid in the belt
      2. Most mines are owned by Martian Corporations
      3. Also a growing hotbed of political and economic tensions between the MPG and the JMC though not as focused on as both Ceres and Vesta
1. Jupiter
   1. Since Jupiter is a gas giant, the planet itself is uninhabited
   2. Jupiter was colonized by Martians mainly and so most of the places on Jupiter that are inhabited in some way are under Martian control, with several exceptions.
   3. All people who are from one of the moons of Jupiter are referred to as either Jovians or Jupiterians. Jupiterian generally only refers to someone from a Jupiter moon, but Jovian can technically also refer to those from Saturn’s moons
   4. The political situation surrounding Jupiter changed once the settlements on several moons matured enough to declare independence from Martian political rule. The three main political powers formed what is called the Jovian Moon Coalition (Abbreviated as the JMC. I also used to refer to them as the Jupiterian Moon Council)
      1. The Jovian Moon Coalition caused political tension by its formation as the three moons combined could outcompete Mars in productivity and they are in less of a gravity well as Mars
      2. All of the moons in the Coalition are the Galilean Moons with the exception of IO, which is JMC controlled territory, but is used for thermal energy production and is not used for permanent settlement.
      3. Europa
         1. Citizens of Europa are also referred to as Europans
         2. The largest power of the three
         3. Largest water, oxygen, and fuel producer in the solar system
         4. Most productive of the three
      1. Callisto
         1. Citizens of Callisto are also referred to as Callistans
         2. Tied with Ganymede in terms of productivity
      1. Ganymede
         1. Citizens of Ganymede are also referred to as Ganymedans
         2. Tied with Callisto in terms of productivity
   1. Carpo is a moon of Jupiter that is used as a space station and not as anything else. It is used to name one of the ship classes. Specifically, the one that Lucas Davis travels on. It is under JMC control
   2. Most other moons of Jupiter are either under Martian control or are disputed
1. Saturn
   1. Saturn is similar to Jupiter in that it is a gas giant and so the moons of Saturn are what are used
   2. Titan
      1. As the events of the story take place, Titan has just barely matured to the point of being independent.
      2. It is at a tipping point politically speaking that could challenge Martian dominance if it sides with the JMC
   1. All of the other moons are largely under Martian control.


Conclusion
Hopefully all of this makes sense. One other thing to note is that the name Tritanium is a relic of how I’ve developed this idea over time. It used to be a misunderstanding of the spelling of Titanium that stuck. The focus has been generally about how asteroids are rich in certain valuable minerals that humans would be willing to fight over.
Created By James Larsen
JamesB444@msn.com