TRITANIUM
By James Larsen
________________


Table of Contents
Chapter 1-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------3
Chapter 2-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------6
Chapter 3----------------------------------------------------------------------------------16
Chapter 4----------------------------------------------------------------------------------19
Chapter 5----------------------------------------------------------------------------------21
Chapter 6----------------------------------------------------------------------------------25
Chapter 7----------------------------------------------------------------------------------27
Chapter 8----------------------------------------------------------------------------------30
Chapter 9----------------------------------------------------------------------------------32
Chapter 10---------------------------------------------------------------------------------38
Chapter 11----------------------------------------------------------------------------------41
________________


Chapter 1
He would remember the sound of the explosion to the day he died. It haunted him. He knew exactly where he was and what he had been doing that day. His first experience personally with real events that were both beyond his control and had tragic results. The bodies. The mangled bodies of the children. The loud confusion. He volunteered to help clean up the destroyed marketplace. He never would forget it.
        After the event had taken place and he was dismissed by the emergency personnel, he found himself back in his room. He was confused and felt numb. He didn’t know what had happened.
        He later found out what had happened. There was a group, a Nationalist German group, that claimed responsibility for the bombs. He lived on Mars, in France, but in a particular portion of France that had been taken from Germany during the war. His family was of German heritage and so he had always known about this tension between the Germans and the French. The Germans resented French rule, but the French had justly won the war, so the Germans had to live with the consequences. Petitions some Germans made to the Martian Planetary Government were largely ignored. There were demonstrations, but to no avail. The territory was resource rich and had vital manufacturing plants. Some groups got more extremist.
        He, Lucas Davis, favored the Germans slightly, given that he was loyal to his family and his heritage. It made him resentful when he heard those at his school discuss the conflict, most often from the perspective of the French, who were usually not charitable to other positions. Still he had, since his youth, no definitive view on the matter. He only knew what had happened and the reasoning on both sides.
        It was obvious to him that there were problems with the resentment that the Germans felt. Especially with the terrorist attack, the resentment led to violence. Yet the violence was not the resentment itself, but an expression of the resentment.
        Was the resentment justified? What does that even mean? What does being justified mean? There were harmful impacts that came about from the resentment and from the bombs, but does that make it unjustified? Are there any actions that do not, in some way or another, cause harmful impacts? Either through their action directly, or indirectly through their opportunity costs, are there not harmful effects? What about events that take place that, for all you know, you could have stopped, or at least have mitigated their negative impacts? Are you justified in your actions when the full extent of the events are beyond your control but you could have influenced a microscopic portion of the outcome? He could never figure it out.
        It took him hours to fall asleep. The excitement of the day had exhausted him, but had removed from him the ability to fall asleep. He lay there in his bed for hours while flashbacks of what had happened played in his mind repeatedly.
        The next day, Lucas found himself on the train back to school. He’d been at his home to celebrate Foundation Day with his family but had been eager to return to school. He was nearing the end of his final semester at the New Paris Institute of Technology. 
        On the way to the train, he had to avoid several large crowds of people. All of whom were holding signs and marching through the streets. Just as he was leaving, he noticed that there was a clash between the protesters and a store owner. The store owner was being pulled out on the ground while Lucas saw one of the protesters holding something that gave off an orange light. Lucas turned around away from the scene and did not look back. He knew the store. His family frequented the place. The store owner was a German.
While on the train, he could faintly recognize words and phrases from the conversations being had between the other passengers. Most of them were about the Terrorist Attack. He was still processing through what had happened and so the various angles and spin the passengers took of the event hit him hard. There was large speculation about who was responsible, but the general consensus was that it was German.
        Once he arrived at his college campus, despite what had happened, he quickly and quietly moved back into the rhythm of school. It was his final semester before graduating. He had applied for various jobs and had managed to secure an on site position at a mine on Ceres. It was not what he wanted, he wanted to work either on Mars or on Phobos Station, but he did not expect to have received such a highly competitive position as Phobos Station straight out of college. Nevertheless, he didn’t complain. He could use the work. It would also give him a chance to travel beyond Mars, which made him more excited than he expected.
        The semester resumed without a moment’s notice. The holiday had been an extremely short break that had failed to disrupt the rhythm of school. As the end of the Semester approached, he had yet to contemplate what his life would resemble once he had finished. The time passed quickly as the rhythm of school resumed.
        Once the Semester finished, Lucas was left with a weird feeling. He had nothing that was required of him in his immediate time frame. His responsibilities were mostly finished. He had to report to the company in order for them to assign him to his new position, but that was comparatively easy. It was this weird feeling that Lucas had as he boarded the train to the Phobos Station Transit System.
________________


Chapter 2
The transit system was a series of tethers anchored to the surface of Mars on which several carriages rode up to Phobos and back, transporting both passengers and goods between the two places. As he walked to the ticket booth, his heart started racing. He was excited. This was his first time in space. He was actually going to be in space.
        Riding inside the Phobos Station Transport System allowed Lucas to see Mars in a way he had never seen before. The seat he was fastened to was right next to  As the carriage lifted itself along the tethers, he could gradually see more of Mars. Eventually, the curvature of the planet surface was visible. It was an awe inspiring sight. He had never seen it before. As the carriage moved further and further up, Lucas noticed that he was gradually feeling lighter and lighter. The rotation of the Martian surface as well as the inertia of the tram resulted in a net force towards the center of Mars that was slowly diminishing. As the carriage approached Phobos Station, Lucas was weightless.
        As the carriage reached its destination on Phobos, Lucas was helped into the station. Phobos was the largest space station in the Solar System. It was utilized early on as a mine to aid in the colonization of Mars. Since that time, vast portions of the moon were mined out and filled with amenities: Research Laboratories, Spacecraft Factories, Entertainment Facilities, and the largest spaceport in the Solar System. Phobos Station was the pride of Mars for good reason. Because of the orbit of the station, early transportation to the moon relied on rockets, but slowly Martians built tether systems that were connected to Phobos that flew through the atmosphere and were accessed by aircraft. Eventually, massive thruster facilities were manufactured on Phobos’ surface that, over the course of more than a decade[1], changed the orbit of the Moon until it was in Areostationary Orbit. This had happened almost four hundred years ago.[2] Since that time, the Martian Planetary Government had completely eclipsed both the Lunarians and the Terrans in Satellites, Space Exploration, Asteroid Mining, and Colonization. Most of the human colonies in the Solar System were originally colonized by Martians due to this fact. Despite the political changes that occurred about 16 years ago[3], both the Martian Planetary Government and Martian centered corporations held the lionshare of the mines on Asteroids and moon colonies.
        Lucas spent the majority of his stay on Phobos admiring the sights and sounds on the Station. He walked through the marketplace, admiring everything about the shops and stalls that had opened up. He attended an acrobatics show, admiring the low gravity stunts performed. He toured the museum, which showed the history of the station through the artifacts that had been left behind since the first humans set foot on Phobos 625 years ago[4]. He was a kid in a candy shop.
        As his stay was coming to a close, he began to grow nervous about his job. He also started to lose some of the initial excitement he had about the Station. His thoughts started to wander back to Mars and to the marketplace that day. He couldn’t dispel what had happened. It wouldn’t go away from his mind. The less he had to do, the more it bothered him. The day before his departure, it took him hours to fall asleep.
        The day he left for the spaceport, he felt better than he had the day before. He hadn’t had the chance to visit the spaceport in the time that he had visited the station. As he walked to his departure gate, he had the chance to see the ships as they were being prepped for departure. 
He glanced at his ticket. Gate 38. The flight was scheduled to leave at 11:10 AM. He glanced at his watch. 9:45 AM. He had arrived at the gate. The flight would board fairly soon. He took the time to take a better look at the various ships being prepped. At gate 37, he could see a Deimos D178A, which he recognized as being an older ship that was mainly used for cargo, but that could also hold more than 1000 passengers depending on its modifications. At gate 39 he recognized an Elara CS3497, which was a Jovian cargo ship. He noticed it was owned by the same company that was doing his flight: Europan Interplanetary Spacelines.
“Europan Interplanetary Spacelines Flight number 29873 to Ceres is now boarding at gate 38. Now boarding first class, seats 1-25.” That was his flight, but his ticket was for economy class. He had to wait.
The ship at gate 36 was a Phobos 2390. A smaller passenger ship. “Now boarding business class, seats 26-50.” The ship at gate 35 was an Ida 32093. This was a new cargo ship. “Now boarding economy class, seats 51-75.” He glanced at his ticket. 56. Time to go. He got in line. While in line, he stared at the ship at gate 34. It was a Deimos A342, also a large cargo ship, like the Ida class and the Elara class. It was an older model. Nevertheless, it was the most gorgeous ship he had ever seen. He remembered playing with models of the Deimos A342 when he was a young child. In person, it was more beautiful than he thought it would have been. It had two nacelles that jutted out from the body, just like all of the other ships, except for the Ida which had four, that jutted out from the side of the body. They were swept backwards and twice as long as the main body. 
“Ticket please.” He had been so distracted by the ship that the he had failed to notice that there were no people in front of him in line. He moved up to the desk and gave the attendant his ticket. He went through the door to the hallway, managing to catch up to the other people in front of him in line. As he was escorted to his seat on the spacecraft, he glanced around at the interior of the humble spacecraft he had found himself in.
It was a Carpo ES8720. It had all the hallmarks of Europan engineering; economical, not necessarily comfortable. He didn’t care though. Comfort was not as important as the mere fact of travel.
He was seated in a seat next to the aisle. He placed his bags in the compartment below the seat in front of him. He relaxed into his seat. A man came up along the aisle until he was right next to his seat. “Seat 57,” the man said, showing his ticket. “Oh, sorry.” He moved his legs to let the man into the seat.
He looked at the compartment on the back of the seat in front of him. It contained a thick booklet that had “IMPORTANT SAFETY INFORMATION” on the cover in bold letters. He picked the booklet out of its holder and thumbed through its pages. There were some illustrations of the ship, some illustrations on how to properly put on a space suit in the case of a hull breach, and some illustrations of how to properly place on a O2 mask.
“So is this your first time in space?” The man asked.
“Yep. How can you tell?” He responded.
“Your look of wonderment at this ship. There are better ships.”
“I know that. I can’t have fun with space travel?”
“You’ll get used to it.”
“Perhaps.” Lucas had barely started talking with the person and he was already chafing from the person’s abrasive personality.
“I take it you’re from Mars?”
“Yep. Born and raised. You?” Lucas entertained the man.
“My parents were born on Europa but they moved to Callisto when I was about 2.” He was a Jovian. Europa, Callisto, and Ganymede were the most populated moons of Jupiter. Lucas hadn’t really given much thought to the Jovian-Martian conflict while on Mars and so he hadn’t formed any opinions on the matter. He’d heard about the conflict on the news but only knew the surface level details. About 16 years ago[5], the Europan Government, which had declared independence from the Martian Planetary Government 5 years prior[6], formed an alliance with the Callistan Government and the Ganymedan Government that became known as the Jovian Moon Coalition. All three of those governments, when banded together, rapidly expanded in power. The JMC was powerful enough to outstrip Mars in terms of sheer productive output. Nevertheless, Mars remained the dominant Interplanetary Power. This had started to change in the past 2 years as the Government of Titan declared independence from Martian rule. There were fears about Titan disrupting the balance of power if they were to side with the Jovians.
“Oh cool,” Lucas said. “Do you like it on Callisto?”
“No,” the man replied tersely.
“Oh,” Lucas said, surprised by the man’s terseness. Changing the subject, he said “Ok, by the way, what’s your name?”
“Patrick Jensen,” Patrick replied. “Yours?”
“Lucas Davis,” Lucas replied. “So what are you heading to Ceres for?”
“My job. I repair mining equipment.”
“How long have you been doing that for?”
“4 years[7]. I’m heading back after a vacation.”
“Where at?”
“My wife is terran, so we’ve been on earth for a few months visiting her family.”
“Really,” Lucas was intrigued, ” I’ve never been to earth what’s it like?” He’d heard about Earth and how it was where humanity had come from. It was an idle fascination for him. Although it was a fascination, he’d never studied much about current earth events. He knew less about current Earth events than Luna, JMC, or Titan events.
“I don’t really like it there. Everything is so much heavier. There’s too many wide open spaces. The environment is not as controlled. It was a miserable experience. Breathing outdoors without a suit is weird. Also, the culture there is completely different.”
“Really?” He’d never contemplated what it would be like to be outside the highly controlled environment of Mars. It was normal to him. Walking outside of the dome of the city was reserved only for those who had the proper training and even then was reserved for repairs and for construction. He also knew nothing about the culture of earth. ”What’s so different about the culture?”
“Terrans view anyone who’s not from Earth or Luna as elitist and naive. They view everyone as being Martian even if they’ve never set foot on Mars or if they have a dislike of Martian economic dominance. For them, the Jovian Moon Coalition and the Martian Planetary Government are the exact same thing.”
“So are Terrans resentful of Martian economic dominance?” Mars, like all the other colonized worlds, relied on off world resources mined from asteroids, comets, proto planets, and moons. Since Mars was the first off world colony to be self sufficient, it retained control over the lionshare of offworld resources. Due to holding control over the lionshare of offworld resources, Martians also received the lionshare of mined resources. This became a problem as some of their off world colonies expanded, and began to consume more resources. The first off world colony to expand to the point of needing off world resources was Europa, which was a major exporter of water, seafood, and fuel. Prior to being politically independent, resource imports to Europa came from Martians at the minimum for the colony to survive. For as long as it was a colony, the main beneficiaries of Europan resources were Martians. As soon as the Jovian Moon Coalition formed, there became a competition over resources with Martian colonies. The Jovians quickly took over colonies and mines on other Jovian Moons, such as IO, Himalia, Amalthea, Elara, and Thebe, because of their close vicinity. Lucas knew about that conflict in general, but he’d never given much thought to the other two parties that were not directly involved in the conflict: Earth and Luna.
“They just don’t care. They are much more economically self sufficient. The air there is breathable and agriculture there is a lot less complicated. Also, they don’t have nearly the same infrastructure as the Martian Planetary Government does, so they have a much greater difficulty trading with anyone who’s not Lunarian.”
That was news to him. Earth rarely came up in political discussions and this appeared to be why. Just like how Europa and the rest of the JMC had immense influence over other Jovian Moons, Earth had influence on its moon. However, unlike the Jovians, it seemed Earth was only concerned with affairs with its moon. In fact, that was possibly the reason that the Lunarian Confederacy did not compete with the Martians as much as the Jovians did. The greater gravity well and the greater habitability of the environment made Earth less interested in interplanetary affairs.
Thinking about earth’s different customs and its relative obscurity got him more curious about Earth. “Ok. I heard that they use a different calendar system there than the Martian one, is that correct?” Lucas asked.
“Yes. They use...I think it is the Gregorian Calendar system. They count years every 365 earth days, whereas the Martian system counts years every 672 days or 665 days if it’s a short year. I suppose it’s to be expected. They are more reliant on the seasons than non terrans are so they would have no reason to adopt the Martian system.”
“Why do Callisto, Europa, Ganymede, and everyone else use the Martian system?”
“If I was to speak for Callisto, I’d probably note that Callisto was a Martian colony until 16 years ago[8] and that there’s no real point in switching.”
“Speaking of Infrastructure. What infrastructure does Callisto have?” He’d never thought about how a ship from Callisto would travel from the surface into orbit. Mars’ transportation system was well known, but he’d only heard small pieces about the transportation systems of other planetary systems.
“Since Callisto is a moon with no natural satellites, it does not have the advantage that Mars has of building a transit system directly to a natural satellite, so our transit system is has a smaller capacity. It certainly beats earth’s though. It also is not as big of a gravity well as Mars is so that does balance out some of its weaknesses. Although, since the JMC formed, Europa, Callisto, and Ganymede have focused a lot on infrastructure.” 
“Speaking of the JMC, I’d like to hear your thoughts on the diplomatic relationships with Titan. All the people who I knew were fearful of them banding together with the JMC and that it could disrupt the balance of power.”
“If they do, I’d be ok with it, but then again, I’m a Jovian, so I’d like to see Mars get taken down a few pegs. I don’t think that the Titan government will band together with the JMC just yet given their relative youth, though. They’d be intimidated by the Martians. Perhaps if Mars was actually taken down a peg, the Titanians would join, but I don’t see that happening anytime soon.“
Lucas stopped. It hadn’t occurred to him that Titan would be intimidated by Mars into not joining with the JMC. All he’d known through his discussions with his peers on Mars was about Titan had established its own independence.
“So, what are you going to Ceres for?” Patrick inquired.
“Chemical Engineering. I’m heading on site to a mine.”
“Where did you study?”
“New Paris Institute of Technology. I just graduated last year.”
“You are from France?”
“Yes, but my family’s German. We live in the occupied territory that was ceded to France the war 5 years ago.”
“Oh. I heard about something about that. There was a terrorist attack. Correct?”
“Yes. I actually was there at the time. Some German nationalists set up a bomb in a marketplace. I helped move the bodies...” Lucas trailed off lost in thought. His mind went back to the bomb and its effect.
“Sorry to hear that.”
“It’s fine. Funny thing about that was the riot afterward.” He thought of the shopkeeper he saw on his way to the train. ”But anyway.”
“This is your captain speaking. We’ll be departing for Ceres shortly. Please look forward as the attendants demonstrate important safety instructions. During the first three hours of the flight, please stay in your seat as we start our initial acceleration. Please keep all your personal belongings stored and secured in the compartment. In the event of loss of oxygen, an O2 mask will be ejected from the ceiling. Place the O2 mask on and draw the elastic over your head and note that oxygen is flowing.” The attendants were holding the gas mask and demonstrating as the captain was talking. ”Secure yourself before you attempt to help anyone else. In the case of loss of cabin pressure, pressurized suits are found in the compartment below. O2 Masks will deploy; secure the O2 mask before putting on the pressurized suit. Thank you for your flying Europa Inteplanetary Spacelines, the time is 11:34 am, the date is the 23rd of Kappa, 625. Our flight is on time for the 16th of Lambda.” A clock above the hallway read 11:34 am 23.10.625.
“So, Ceres is actually my second choice,” Lucas said. “I just graduated and had applied to various positions on Mars, Phobos Station, Ceres and other asteroids, and got an offer for an onsite position on Ceres. I took it. I’d rather work on Phobos Station, but Phobos Station is really hard to get into.”
“How come?” Patrick said.
“Everyone who’s anyone wants a job on Phobos Station. It’s the pride of Mars. A reflection of the genius of Martian Engineering. There’s two people who want a job there for every one person who can be there.”
“I’ll tell you what. Phobos Station is probably the biggest marvel humankind has ever accomplished. Changing the orbit of a moon to geostationary orbit and creating an elevator to move directly to it without the need for rockets was the most complicated engineering project humanity has ever done.”
“It’s also the interplanetary spacecraft lab. Even non-Martian corporations use the labs to prototype and test their spacecraft designs and propulsion systems. It’s also the biggest spaceport. The whole time I’ve been up here waiting for this flight has been breathtaking.”
“This is your captain speaking. We have detached from the station and are presently waiting for our orbital glidepath. In several minutes the attendants will come around to ensure everyone is properly in their restraints for acceleration. Please note that until we have stopped accelerating, we will need you to stay in your safety restraints unless there is an emergency, in which case, please notify an attendant. In the case of the loss of cabin pressure, the restraints have been programmed to release you to enable you to secure your oxygen and pressure suits. In addition, the spacecraft has been programmed to stop accelerating immediately in the case of loss of cabin pressure.”
Lucas had already secured himself in the restraint prior to the captain’s insistence. The reason for the restraints was in the extreme force of acceleration that most ships provided, especially on initial activation. He waited quietly as several minutes passed.
“This is your captain speaking. We are in proper orbital position and will begin acceleration in thirty seconds. Once again, ensure that your restraint is securely fashioned and enjoy your ride. Accelerating in 10...9...8...7...6...5...4...3...2...1...0. Beginning acceleration”
It was a feeling Lucas had never felt before. It was awesome. His entire body was pushed backwards into his seat as the ship pushed him from behind.
It was three hours after the initial acceleration that the acceleration came to a halt. By the time it came to a halt, Lucas had gotten used to the acceleration and the loss of acceleration felt weird.
“Hello, this is your captain speaking. We are now in the proper orbital path to intersect with Ceres in 3 weeks. You are now free to move about the cabin. In the case of emergency while not accelerating, you will be given proper instructions over the intercom. Food and Drink are provided in the area above your present positions. Beds are also provided above your present positions. While on this flight, you are also expected to engage in a minimum of two hours in the exercise room per day. Other forms of entertainment are provided in the back. If you need directions or other forms of assistance, please signal to an attendant. Thank you and have a nice trip.”
________________


Chapter 3
The trip was not as great as the stay Lucas had on Phobos Station. Nevertheless, He enjoyed all the amenities of the ship. He was able to look out of some of the windows to see the blackness of space as he’d never seen before. 
Just as Lucas was getting accustomed to life aboard the ship, the trip came to a close. The ship arrived at Ceres Station. The three weeks had transpired quickly. Quicker than he’d expected.
“Hello, this is your Captain Speaking. We’re in position and ready to begin deceleration to Ceres orbital velocity. Please move to your seats and fasten your restraints. We’ll be decelerating for about 3 hours.”
Lucas was in his seat and restraint early. It had been an overall enjoyable trip, but he was eager to begin his work on the mine. As the ship decelerated, the forces felt exactly the same as when the ship had accelerated. This was because the ship had flipped its orientation.
“Hello once again, this is your captain speaking. We are now in a proper orbital glidepath in Ceres and have permission to rendezvous with Ceres Station within the hour. You are now free to move about the cabin.” It had been about three hours.
“As a representative of Europa Spacelines, I’d like to thank all of you for your cooperation on this flight. Please consider Europa Spacelines for your next Interplanetary Flight. We have successfully docked with Ceres Station. Please exit the spacecraft in an orderly fashion. If you require assistance, please contact an attendant. The time is 2:26 pm on the 16th of Lambda, 625. Once again, thank you for choosing Europa Spacelines and have a pleasant stay on Ceres.”
Ceres Station was vastly smaller than Phobos Station had been. However, it was larger than the Carpo ES8720, which was an improvement. As Lucas left the ship and retrieved his luggage, he was happy to be on this new station. However, he was more happy to be in stationary orbit over Ceres than anything. It meant he was closer to his new job. He boarded the transport station as quickly as he could.
He noticed once again that the transport system down to Ceres was not as large as the ones to and from Phobos Station. As he descended from the station, he got his first look at Ceres. It was awesome. Not as awesome as Mars, of course, but it was still a marvel to behold. 
As the transport system reached the ground, Lucas started to feel the weight of Ceres’s gravity. He remembered Martian gravity and Ceres’s gravity was much smaller. Nevertheless, having been weightless during the transit made the new gravity slightly more difficult. 
        A bizarre feeling came over Lucas as he exited the transportation system. He was standing on a new world. He’d never been to a world that had not been Mars. It was exhilarating.
        Lucas managed to find a representative from M2C, the company he was working for, and was escorted to the train. Once at the mine, he was given a tour. It was a wonderful experience. He had enjoyed seeing how factories had worked since he was a child and was taken back to his joy at seeing them here. Once the tour was complete, he was shown the station he was to work at and who his supervisor was going to be.
        The tour, though enjoyable, had been overwhelming. He was provided dinner by the company and then was escorted to his living quarters. 
        “Hello, what’s your name?” Asked a roommate as he entered his new residence.
        “Lucas Davis,” he replied. “Yours?”
        “Meredith McLean,” she replied. “You new around here?”
        “Yes,” Lucas replied. “I just arrived today from Mars.”
        “Ooh. I like Mars. It’s a lovely place. With this last stay, I’ve been here for about 5 months, but this is my...fourth stay...I think. I’ve been an employee for a few years now. I’m originally from Luna.”
        “Cool,” Lucas replied. “I’ve only met a few Lunarians before. What’s your position?”
        “I’m in Mechanical Engineering,” she said. “Although, you become more of a hybrid as your team is generally composed of individuals from various disciplines. I mainly work on designing the ore processing machines. How old are you?”
        “13[9],” Lucas replied. “You?”
        “16[10],” Meredith replied. “What’s your position?”
        “Chemical Engineering. I’m testing the ore processors.”
        “Do you start tomorrow?”
        “Yep.”
        “Awesome. So, make yourself home. I take it that you’ve eaten, correct?”
        “Yes, I just ate.”
        “Ok. There are 4 other roommates in this place. The person who just moved out was in the room on the left.” She pointed to a room.
        By the time Lucas entered his bedroom and had moved in, a sudden wave of exhaustion hit him. It had been a long and busy day. He was eager to fall asleep and start his new life.
        The first day of work was largely composed of training for his position. He learned a great deal. It went both fast and slow at the same time. As the announcement came for lunch, he had been so engrossed in his reading of one of the training booklets that he didn’t notice it at first and had to be reminded by a pat on his shoulder. He sat with his new team as he ate his lunch, a filling lunch. Not particularly tasty. He had some trouble following the conversation that the team was having, but still understood most of what they were saying. Once lunch was finished, the team went back to what they were doing and Lucas went back to learning as much as he could about what he was doing.
________________


Chapter 4
        The days sped up after the first day. It took Lucas a few days to adjust to the new rhythm of work. After several weeks, Lucas was up to speed on what he was doing. It was different than what he had been doing before while he was in college and he liked it. Perhaps as time wore on, his enjoyment of his job would wane, but thus far that had not been the case.
        The weeks sped by in a blur as Lucas became engrossed in his work. Soon it had been six months since he had first arrived on Ceres. He was halfway through his 12 month stay on Ceres. He was enjoying his work and was looking forward to the next six months.
        Unfortunately, the 16th of Rho, 625, was the wrong day for Lucas to go to work at the M2C mine on Ceres. It was a date that rocked Mars, Luna, the JMC, Titan, and even the Earth. Few expected the event to occur. Afterward, a rallying cry would be uttered “Remember the 16th of Rho.” The day would remain a day of solemn remembrance long afterward.
        Lucas was working at his station, staring at one of his screens when a voice he did not recognize started shouting at him. “Hands above your head where I can see them!” He turned his head to look at who was shouting at him when he was hit by something metal on the head. “I said, hands above your head!” His head was spinning from the blow, but he took his hands off his keyboard and placed them on his head. He was shoved to the ground. The force knocked the wind out of him. The man kneeled on his lower back, sending sharp pains throughout his body, and handcuffed him.
        Lucas felt tears come to his eyes. He was bewildered about what was happening. “Stand,” the man ordered, and Lucas obeyed. It was after he stood that he noticed other voices shouting in the mine. “Walk forward.” Lucas was lead to a multipurpose room. He had used it to exercise in the months past. Now, as he entered the room, he could see that prisoners were being led to this room for safe keeping. He saw that there were armed soldiers on all exits to the room. As he was seated on the floor, he managed to steal a closer glance at one of the soldiers uniforms.
        He recognized the small flag that was on the soldier’s shoulder. It was unmistakeable. The background was Orange and there were three circles, one blue, the other grey and the third one black. The three circles were the points of a triangle. In the center was a symbol. The symbol of a planet. 
        “Jovians.”


________________


Chapter 5
        It hit Lucas hard. The stay in the multipurpose room was long enough that his mind started to wander. He had been so engrossed in his life at the mine that he had barely thought of Mars, his family, his college friends, and life before the mine. He started to wonder if he would see his family again. He wondered what would happen. For the first time since he had started college, he missed his family. What did their voices sound like? He wracked his brain, but the sound did not play in his mind. He wanted to remember what they sounded like.
        The soldiers in the multipurpose room eventually lead him along with some other prisoners to a cell. Outside of the mine. “What are you going to do to us?” One of his fellow prisoners asked.
        “As of right now, we’ve sent the demands to the Martian Planetary Government. Once some delegates arrive at Ceres Station, we will decide what we will do with you. If they agree to our demands, the mines presently on Ceres will become property of the JMC and anyone not registered as a JMC citizen will be deported back to whichever government they are registered as. Martians will be sent back to Mars and Lunarians will be sent back to Luna. Titanians will not be deported. We have selected you as essential personnel for the mine and you will train those who will replace you after you have been deported. So long as the Martian Planetary Government complies with our demands, it will be smooth from this moment on.”
        Lucas’ heart sank. He knew what was going on. Ceres, Vesta, and Pallas all had mines that were under Martian control. The JMC held little control over asteroid mines. Jovians, when negotiating over mining rights to moons of Jupiter, were the more reliable supplier of goods. They could undercut Martian traders on goods that both economies produced, which gave them leverage. This advantage was nullified with Ceres, Vesta, and Pallas. Since the Martians were there first, they owned the mines, and Jovian Traders were unable to undercut them.
        What the JMC was doing here was to take the mines by force. The economic leverage worked in places where one party was much closer than the other. The Jovians couldn’t buy Ceres mines out.
        The cell was cramped. Sleeping was difficult. Thoughts of his family kept Lucas up. Lucas also thought of what the soldier had said. What would happen if the Martians did not meet the Jovian’s demands? Would he be taken to a Jovian prison camp on IO or some other Jovian Moon? Would he remain on Ceres? His sleep was restless.
        As his guard came to the cell to wake him up, the reality of his situation came crashing down. He was going to be a prisoner for a long time. “The Martian Planetary Government has responded to our demands and is sending has agreed to send a ship to Ceres. Your replacement crew has landed from Ceres Station and will be here within the hour.” The soldier’s words were nothing more than confirmation of what had been explained earlier, but they penetrated his mind harder than he thought they would. 
        The soldier gave him and his fellow prisoners their breakfast. Luckily the soldier walked away afterwards, which left the prisoners alone. “What’s the plan?” asked a prisoner.
        “For what?” another prisoner asked.
        “For escaping,” the first prisoner responded.
        “What do you mean escaping? There’s no way we can escape. All populated portions of Ceres are filled with JMC soldiers. Our only hope is for the MPG ship to arrive and to sign all the JMC demands.”
        “We can’t let the JMC take over Ceres by force. That will embolden them to take over more of Martian property by force. The MPG cannot negotiate over this.”
        “I don’t care. That’s your government’s problem. I’m Lunarian, I have no loyalty towards the MPG.”
        “Didn’t you hear what the soldier said? If the MPG loses control over Ceres, then the asteroid will no longer be open to Lunarians. Like it or not, Lunarians are in this too. So what are our plans?” The prisoner looked at Lucas. “What was everyone’s position in the mine? Mine was equipment inspection.”
“Software Design,” the other prisoner replied.
“Mechanical Engineering,” said another one of the prisoners.
“Electrical Systems Engineering,” said a fourth prisoner.
“Chemical Engineering,” Lucas said.
        “Which type of Chemistry?” Everyone turned to look at Lucas. He was suddenly very uncomfortable.
        “Ceres is largely composed of carbonaceous chondrite material. Carbon chemistry.”
        “Gas?”
        “I know how to create certain gasses. Yes. What do you have in mind?”
        “Perhaps we can flood the mine with gas from the ventilation system,” the prisoner said and then turned to the Mechanical Engineer. “Do you know how the ventilation system functions? Could we release a gas through the ventilation system?”
        “It’s not my area of expertise. I’d need to see a schematic of the mine.”
        “Hold on a second,” Lucas said. “Are you saying that you want me to create a lethal gas?” Lucas was uncertain about using his knowledge of chemistry for such a damaging purpose.
        “Possibly. What sorts of gasses can you make from the materials here?”
        Lucas thought for a minute. “There are sulfuric gasses that are lethal, particularly when used with chlorine. However, most of the rocks here don’t contain chlorine. I could probably make Capsaicinoids. Capsaicinoids only need carbon, nitrogen, and hydrogen. We have plenty of carbonates and amino acids, I can probably get that to work. Capsaicinoids only disable though.”
        “That’s good enough. We can use the gas to disorient the soldiers and take their weapons.”
        “I’m not sure I want to do this,” Lucas said, “I don’t want my chemical knowledge to be put to a harmful use.” 
        “This is the best option we have.”
        Lucas was stuck between a rock and a hard place. While he was upset by the Jovians taking over the mine, he did not want to see his chemical knowledge put to such a nefarious end. Two wrongs did not make a right. However, perhaps this plan was necessary to escape. He was unsure what to decide. “I’ll provide you the recipe to make nonivamide, a Capsaicinoid, but that’s it. I won’t produce the gas. You’re on your own on that front.”
        “That’s acceptable. How long do you think it will take you to figure out the recipe for nonivamide?”
        “A couple of weeks. I’d need to figure out the stoichiometry, the correct storage, the correct ingredients, and to remember the exact process. It’s been a little bit of time since I last saw the recipe.”
        “Get to work on it when you can,” the Mechanical Engineer said. “I’ll see what I can do about getting the ventilation system schematics.”
        “Quick,” the Software Designer said. “The soldier is coming this way again. Finish your food.”
        As the prisoners ate the last of their food, the soldier came to the door. “Your replacements have arrived.”
________________


Chapter 6
        The weeks that followed were tense. Lucas, while competent enough at his job prior to the takeover, realized that he only knew well certain portions of the tasks his team members performed. However, it luckily turned out that what he didn’t know, the replacements were capable of puzzling together. This was both a blessing and a curse as the week moved on because the moment his replacements could do the work without him, he would either be placed with the other prisoners or he would be deported. It all came down to what happened first.
        When Lucas would return to his cell with the other prisoners, he would immediately start working on the recipe for the nonivamide. It was a difficult thing to do. The mine was designed around the creation refined ores and so its chemical facilities were not optimized for organic chemical production. Nevertheless, he was slowly able to puzzle out the recipe and work out how it could be produced in the mine.
        As the first week came to a close, the Mechanical Engineer of the group was able to steal the schematics for the ventilation system. From that, the group was able to decide on the best location to deploy the novimanide to disable the soldiers. The Equipment Inspection Specialist was able to procure gas masks to enable the rest of the prisoners to escape from the gas’ disabling effects.
        By the end of the second week, Lucas managed to finalize the recipe for nonivamide. He passed the recipe to the Equipment Inspection Specialist. After a few days, the prisoners were able to create enough of the gas to disable everyone in the mine who was not wearing a gas mask.
        Lucas had no idea what the rest of the plan entailed. All he knew was where his gas mask was and what signal the prisoners would use to inform the other prisoners to put on their gas mask. As the day drew near, Lucas’ nervousness and anticipation was palpable to the point of coming close to interfering with his work. Luckily, his captors did not catch on.
        The signal came while Lucas was still at his station. Lucas quickly retrieved his gas mask from the station and bolted away from his station before anyone in the room had time to react. Once he had placed his gas mask on, he left the room. By this time, the gas had been dispersed throughout enough of the station that anyone he came across was choking and wheezing. He came into a room that had only one soldier. Before he could talk himself out of it, Lucas ran over to the soldier and disarmed him. He disrobed the soldier and tied him up. Then he ran over to another room and changed into the soldier’s clothes. They were not the best fit, but he couldn’t complain. Once he was in the soldier’s clothes, he dragged the soldier into the room and closed the door.
        Lucas still had on the gas mask, but was noticing that the nonivamide had dispersed. He removed his gas mask and walked through some of the rooms and had noticed that the confusion had turned violent. The distraction was enough for other prisoners in his group to retrieve some of the soldiers weapons. He could hear gunshots. There was yelling.
        Lucas quietly slipped to the entrance of the mine. In all the confusion, the entrance was not being guarded. He found the train station right next to the mine. Luckily, once again, the train was there. He quickly boarded. The train was empty. Lucas hit the button that said Ceres Station Transit. The train carried him to the Ceres Transportation System.
        “My only hope of getting out of here alive,” Lucas thought, “is by getting to Ceres Station.”
________________


Chapter 7
        The Ceres Station Transportation System was unmanned. It required permission to operate. Lucas found this out as soon as he reached the Transportation System. Luckily, in one of the pockets of the soldier’s uniform was an identity card. Swiping the card, Lucas boarded the carriage. He was alone in his ascent from the surface. The loneliness of his ascent fed caused his normally benign fear of heights to become worse. It was an eternity before he found himself in Ceres Station. The fear subsided the more the carriage rose and the more time Lucas had to reflect.
        “What do I do now?” Lucas wondered. “If the Jovians control Ceres Station, can I commandeer a ship? Maybe I can disguise myself as a pilot.”
        He found an opportunity. As he floated through Ceres Station, noticing as well that it felt more roomy than it had when Lucas had first arrived, Lucas managed to find a pilot. He cornered the pilot as the pilot used the restroom, holding him at gunpoint. Lucas swapped clothes with the pilot and figured out his roster. After he did this, he tied up the pilot and gagged him.
        Lucas was surprised at how well his plan worked. As he entered the airlock for the ship, Lucas felt an excitement grow inside him. This might actually work.
        He found the preflight checklist inside the cockpit of the vessel. It was a Carpo FV8723. A different model of the Carpo type vessel that he’d used to fly to Ceres from Mars, but very similar. The preflight checklist, he reasoned, was necessary to ensure the spacecraft would function properly in orbit and in interplanetary travel. However, he noticed that the pilot’s orders were merely to stay in orbit.
        “I wonder why the ships are to stay in orbit.” It suddenly came to Lucas’ mind. “They’re using Ceres Station to launch orbital defensive ships. Once the Martian Ships arrive, these ships will need to ensure that the Martian Ships don’t engage in behavior the Jovians don’t like.”
        As Lucas checked off the preflight checklist, a surprisingly easy task to do considering the complexity of a spaceship, he noticed something that confirmed his suspicions. “Weapons Indicator Panel (WIP),” he read, “ensure that the numbers listed on the panel match the ones on this sheet.” As he checked the numbers after having found the panel, he could see the missile types listed on the display.
        “High Missiles: 5 KM sized blast radius Nuclear Explosives. Missiles: 1 KM sized blast radius Nuclear Explosives. How far away do these Jovians think a spaceship battle will be?” Lucas wondered. 5 KM was a large distance.
        Lucas finished up the preflight checks and was cleared by the Ceres Orbital Traffic Controller to disembark.
        “Great.” Lucas thought. “Now I have to figure out how to fly this thing.”
        Lucas found the pilot’s manual. He turned to the index. “There’s got to be instructions for how to disengage from an Orbital Station.” He looked first in the A’s for Automatic. He saw an entry titled Automatic Disembarking Procedures. He turned to the page in question. There was a description of what the Automatic Disembarking Process was along with illustrations of buttons with numbers next to each of them for when to press them. While he read through them, he noticed that a few were actually for backup and emergency situations in cases where the first systems failed to function correctly. He found the panel with the buttons in question. Carefully reading through the instructions, Lucas pressed the buttons according to how the book instructed him. He also happened to notice that the panel in the manual was slightly distinct from the actual panel he was looking at, but that they had the same names. “Perhaps the Jovians refitted this spaceship type without changing the manual.” 
Once the spaceship had disembarked from the station, the Orbital Traffic Controller instructed Lucas on which orbital glidepath he was allowed to. The orbit was approximately 100 kilometers closer to Ceres’ surface than Ceres Station was. This meant that Lucas would orbit Ceres slightly faster than Ceres Station would. Reading the book, Lucas was able to specify to the ship exactly the altitude and orbital path his ship was to take. Most of it was automatically defined. For that, Lucas was extremely grateful. There was unfortunately one problem. Scratch that, there were several problems. “What do I do now?” This was the first problem. The second one was not noticed by Lucas until he read the manual entry for a panel labelled IRS, which he found out meant Infrared Screen. As he discovered what IRS meant and whether he should be worried about the beeping white blob on the screen, he realized what this new blob was.
“The Martians have arrived.”
________________


Chapter 8
Lucas read through the manual trying to find the instructions on how to operate the radio. “I need to be able to contact them.” After minutes of searching, he eventually found the radio and its accompanying controls. What he suddenly realized he needed, was the frequency that the Martian ships were using to communicate. He searched through the manual, looking first for M for Martian, then for F for frequencies, but he didn’t find them. Searching for R for Radio only got him back to the general radio information.
“Maybe I can try all of the frequencies available,” he thought. He grumbled, knowing that trying all of the frequencies would take hours. However, if it would work, he needed to try it.
He started on the lowest frequencies. Static. He would wait a few seconds between each frequency to see if the radio was picked up. Nothing. Hours passed as he changed frequencies. The longer he went the more panicked he started to feel. What if he couldn’t contact the Martian Ships? When will the Jovians on the station learn of what’s happened?
He found himself at the end of the frequencies. No dice. Thinking, he started over from the very beginning, using longer intervals before switching frequencies. Two more excruciating hours passed as Lucas switched frequency after frequency.
Just as Lucas started to lose hope, he heard something. “Olympus to Marineris, what’s your status?” Lucas let out a sigh of relief. 
“Marineris to Olympus, We have contacted Ceres Station and are in Orbital Glidepath Kappa 23. Waiting for further orders.”
        “Affirmative Marineris. We are having our second communications personnel attempting to radio the mines on the surface. We are not receiving anything but static.”
        “Elysium to Olympus, we are holding in Orbital glidepath Lambda 89. Awaiting further orders.”
        “Olympus to Elysium, what’s your reading on the JMC fleet?”
        “In addition to several small Carpo ships in orbit close enough for our radar, a JMC fleet is coming into orbit within the next half hour. The fleet is packed close enough together that their heat signatures are combining into one reading, so we cannot make out much beyond the fact that it’s there. Once the fleet comes to within 1,000 KM we’d be able to make out more details about the fleet.”
        Lucas glanced at the IRS. It was showing another tiny white blob. Lucas did not know where the other ships were getting distance information from. He started reading again.
        “Marineris to Olympus, do you believe the Martians on the mine are still alive?”
        Lucas put his finger on the send button. He suddenly realized that this was a bad idea. The radio signal he would send out would announce to other Jovians listening in on the Martian frequency to the fact that something was up. It would blow his cover. It suddenly hit him. There was nothing he could do to be saved by the Martian fleet. Perhaps if he hadn’t fled the mine…
        Now was not the time to be having second thoughts. He was here. The Martian fleet was there. The JMC fleet was there. There was nothing he could do about that.
        “Let’s not get bogged down by that.”
        “Elysium to Olympus, the JMC fleet has come within 1000 KM. We can determine the composition of the fleet.”
        “Olympus to Elysium, what is it?”
        “We are detecting 9 ships Olympus.”
        “Olympus to Elysium. Repeat. You said 9 ships?”
        “Affirmative.”
________________


Chapter 9
        Lucas realized that he was not the only one surprised and disheartened by the news. The Jovians were dead serious about this. The thought terrified Lucas. This was their intention all along.
        “Marineris to Fleet. So it appears the JMC fleet outnumbers our fleet 3 to 1.”
        “That appears to be correct Marineris.”
        “What do you propose we do now Olympus?”
        “Olympus will handle all communications with the JMC fleet. It’s possible we can resolve this peacefully.”
        “What would constitute an actual act of war?”
        “We’d need a formal declaration of war from either the JMC, but if there were to be a ship to ship firefight then both sides are in an act of war.”
“Commandeering the mine does not constitute an act of war?”
“Not if we they can help it. The JMC just wants the mines on Ceres, so if they limit the conflict to mines on Ceres, then they can intimidate us into not escalating the situation by having greater orbital power. However, their fleet is in a bind so long as we don’t escalate the situation. If the fleet were to fire on us without adequate provocation, then the JMC would lose significant support for their cause among non-JMC governments. A war between the JMC and the MPG would also involve the Lunarian Confederacy and, perhaps most importantly, the Titanian Government. The JMC might not be worried about the Lunarian Confederacy, but support from the Titanian Government is essential to for them to be able to win a drawn out war.”
Lucas never considered the ideas that were being talked about. He remembered how the soldiers at the mine decided that Titanian citizens would not be deported. Perhaps this was the reason. 
“Olympus to Fleet. Change your frequency to the JMC fleet frequency. We’re going to hail the JMC fleet. Repeat. Change your frequency to the JMC fleet frequency.”
Lucas looked at the frequency that was displayed. He found a pen and some paper and jotted down what the Martian frequency was. He suddenly realized that he didn’t remember what the frequency had been at before he started to change it in his attempt to find the Martian frequency. He did not want to use the same method to find the Jovian Frequency. Instead, he started to look through the manual. He looked up J for Jovian, R for Radio, F for Frequency, but didn’t find the answer. Revisiting the radio controls, he noticed that there were several presets. He hit one of the buttons. Nothing. He hit the second button. Nothing. Upset, he threw the book at the door. He did not throw it at the control panel, he did not want to push buttons that weren’t meant to be pushed. As the book came floating back towards him, Lucas noticed that written on the last page of the book were several numbers. One Lucas recognized immediately as the Martian frequency. He tried some of the other numbers and found that the fourth number on the list was the JMC frequency. He tuned in just in time.
On the radio was shouting. Lucas didn’t recognize it at first. Slowly he realized what it was. It was the sounds of commotion in the mine. A firefight must have broken out once the gas had cleared. Perhaps some of the prisoners managed to get the some of the soldiers’ weapons. The fact that the fight had managed to last this long was surprising to Lucas. It had been something like 5 or 6 hours since the gas had been released.
“Your people have started a firefight,” came a voice that Lucas assumed was from someone from the JMC fleet. “If you do not step down, we will consider the fighting on the mine to be an act of war and will fire on you and your ships. Send a message to the mine on the surface to lay down their arms and surrender and we will not blow you out of the sky.”
As the commotion on the mine on Ceres sounded through Lucas’ radio, there came another fateful sound. The sound that came through Lucas’ rado also presumably sounded through all the radios. It was a startling sound. It marked subsequent events. It marked the point of no return.
The sound was a loud bang. It was not like the gunshots on the mine on Ceres. It was a bang that signified the firing of a massive cannon. A ship had fired. The conflict had escalated.
At the moment the bang sounded, all Lucas could hear over the radio was static. Both the JMC fleet and the MPG fleet had shut off their communications. 
Lucas was at a loss. He was in shock. He stared at the IRS. All he could see were the small blobs that represented the JMC ships and the MPG ships. He stared at it, still processing what was happening. 
There was a sudden glow of light that was larger than any of the ships on the screen. It was so bright, in fact, that it caused the IRS to lose track of any other ship. The glow only lasted for a second, but he knew what had happened. He turned his radio frequency to the Martian frequency.
“Olympus to Marineris,” a voice came in over the radio. It was different than the voice before. “Our IRS tells us that we lost the Elysium. Confirm.”
“Marineris to Olympus, confirmed. We’re getting no reading on the Elysium.”
”We just lost three of our bridge crew including the captain. It also appears we have a hull breach on the bridge. We are repairing it now. It seems the shrapnel from the Elysium ripped through our hull like a hot knife through butter.”
“We have a hull breach on the deck too. We’re attempting to-”
Lucas saw on the IRS a second time that there was a flash of light.
“Marineris, confirm. Marineris! Confirm! Mar-” Lucas could hear a grunt as the person on the radio drew breath. There was not a flash of light on the IRS. It was probably just shrapnel. He could hear the breathing becoming more labored over the radio until it stopped. “Send a signal to the JMC fleet,” another voice sounded faintly, “we surrender.”
The turn of events was shocking for Lucas. However, that was not the emotion that took over at the instant the voice sounded surrender. He was angry. Furious at the behavior of the JMC. For the first time in his life, Lucas felt righteous anger in support of his fellow Martians. Lucas would not stand by and watch as the Martian fleet was wiped out. Lucas was the lone pilot of a Carpo FV8723, a small, insignificant ship next to the might of the JMC fleet. But perhaps the small size of his ship, was the biggest advantage he could receive. Lucas had both the element of surprise, and was also a small target. All he had to do was fire back and hit the ships in the fleet. He knew almost exactly where they were. They were approximately 500 KM away. The size of an average cargo ship was approximately 500M in from front to back and 250M in diameter. He just needed to hit his target.
How would he hit a target that far away? Lucas studied the missiles. They had a fuse that could be set on a time delay or could be set to explode when they come into contact the a ship’s hull. Lucas decided on the timed delay. He figured that would give him the largest chance to hit and had the least chance of him missing and accidentally causing a nuclear explosion on some other planet. Now to figure out the time to detonation.
Lucas was not the best at Physics. That’s why he went into Chemical Engineering. He did not do well on Orbital Dynamics. Nevertheless, he understood the basics. Ceres was a spherical world. Orbiting the world meant that both his ship and the JMC ships were moving tangentially to Ceres quickly enough that the ship would continually miss the surface. This orbit only required a constant speed that was entirely dependent on the world’s mass. This amounted to approximately 300 m/s. Since a smaller circle had a smaller radius than a bigger circle, the altitude of an orbiting object relative to the world’s surface would determine the angular velocity of the object’s orbit, but not its tangential velocity. An object lower in altitude would therefore orbit the planet in a shorter amount of time. As Lucas noted, his ship was in orbital glidepath Lambda 10. He had managed to find what Lambda 10 meant by looking through one of the charts on the ship. The glidepath determined the points of Latitude and Longitude on Ceres’ surface the orbit covered as well as the altitude of the orbital path. The Orbital Traffic Controller would carefully select where every ship entering into orbit would go. The possibility of collision might be remote, especially in worlds with low Orbital Traffic, but that was a possibility nobody wanted to consider. He also noticed that the computer had managed to triangulate the altitude of the other ships. They were also at nearly the same altitude that his ship was at and their tangential velocity vector was also roughly equivalent. That would save time in calculation.
If Lucas remembered anything about Orbital Dynamics from college, it was that a naive solution to the problem of traveling from one location in orbit to another was to increase one’s tangential velocity. An increase in the tangential velocity would cause the orbit to change from a circle to an ellipse and that would cause the ship to increase in altitude, which would slow its angular velocity. If Lucas wanted an object to travel from his moving ship to the other moving ship, the missile would need to drop altitude, which would cause both its velocity and its angular velocity to accelerate. The missile also had its own rocket that would increase the acceleration. In fact, by the time the missile would reach the other ship, the missile would probably be traveling at escape velocity.
It was a piecewise function and it was also a nightmare. Nevertheless Lucas came through. He checked his math three times to be certain. He also calculated the exact angle down he needed to orient his ship relative to the other ships. He worked out how to set the time delay on the missile and set it to what he had calculated.
It was all ready. Lucas looked through the ship’s gun sights. He managed to figure out what everything meant. He switched the view from the standard light spectrum to infrared and zoomed in as far as he could. He adjusted the sights to align the crosshairs at the angle he wanted. All he needed to do was align the ship within his sights. He found one of the white blobs that represented one of the Jovian ships. He aligned fixed the blob in his sights. He inhaled slowly, and then he exhaled quickly. He fired.
There was a bang. Similar to the sound that had come over the radio just before the Jovians cut off communications. A high missile had left its pod. Lucas quickly aligned his sights on another Jovian ship. He fired. Another bang. He aligned his sights on a third ship and fired. A third bang. He was lucky that the missiles had no recoil.
Lucas was about to fire on a fourth target when the first missile detonated. It was as bright as the explosion that had destroyed the Elysium and the Marineris. The moment it went off, Lucas had to move his eyes away from the sights. It was too bright. It also made the other ships impossible to see. Once the first missile exploded, it wasn’t too long before the second and third missiles exploded. Once their light faded and Lucas could read what the IRS was telling him, He could see that the ships were no more. He had done it.
________________


Chapter 10
Lucas threw his hands above his head in triumph. Not bad for a Chemical Engineer. He moved to look back through his sights, but a blinking light started to flash on his console as he moved. It was a message from a Ceres Station Orbital Traffic Controller. He switched his radio to the OTC frequency.
“Defender 39 alpha, the station has detected three orbital nuclear explosions and that we have traced to your vessel. Please take your hands off of the controls on the spacecraft. You are under arrest for attacking an allied ship.”
Lucas was suddenly transported back to his predicament. He was in a stolen Jovian ship orbiting an asteroid that was more or less under the control of the JMC and was talking to Orbital Traffic Controllers who were also Jovian. 
He had a ludicrous idea. He grabbed the manual and moved to the automatic pilot panel. He figured that the computer was able to run planetary trajectory calculations automatically. He worked out how to set a destination. He picked Mars. A confirmation box came up on the panel. He hit confirm.
It was over a half hour before the engines started accelerating. He had enough time to secure himself in a safety harness. Once the engines started accelerating, he let out a sigh of relief.
It was at that moment that he reviewed what had happened. It was at that moment Lucas lost his jubilation. What had he just done? Not just the fact that he destroyed a spaceship, but that he had given the nonivamide recipe to the other prisoners, that he had tied up and gagged other people, that he had just stolen a ship that wasn’t his. He’d hated what the Jovians had done in taking over the base by force. The Jovians had used violence as a way to get control, but so had he. The actions that he played an integral part in that suddenly gave him control of the situation were violent. They harmed others.
The sounds and sights of the bomb replayed in Lucas’ mind. France and Germany were also contending for power over each other in the interest of gaining resources. The Germans resented the French for their seizure of the land that had been German, but that didn’t justify the bomb in the marketplace. He saw those bodies. The bomb was gruesome and violent. That did not justify the rioting that followed afterwards. Or did it?
What benefit did the violence and harm bring? The bomb was intended to shock people. To show that the situation was not resolved. Unfortunately this also meant that those in power interpreted the problem as being solely that of the people who set the bomb off. The Germans just needed to “get over” their resentment and accept what had happened. In this sense, was there benefit? Yes. But wasn’t there more harm too?
Wait. Benefit and harm. Why are the two weighed together? Why does benefit and harm cancel each other out in some people’s mind? How exactly is harm defined? Who is benefited or harmed? What about short term or long term harm or short term or long term benefit?
Harm could be defined as physical or emotional pain, or it could be defined in an economic sense, or a social capital sense. Could a person come up with a set of ethics that only minimized harm? Perhaps. It would make life impossible though. Every action has some form of an externality to it. Unless the set of ethics dictated that the least harmful option was the best so that even if you cause harm, that’s better than not causing more harm.
He could never figure it out. It was all a confusing mess. Was he a bad person? Actually, what does being a bad person mean? Why is the person more important than their actions? He had killed people. It didn’t matter that he had good intentions or that he had a bad character, he killed people. The effect of his choice mattered.
Why do we insist on labelling people as bad or good? Does it make the universe simpler? Maybe. It could also allow for people to not extend empathy and compassion to others. Despite what had happened, he did not hate the Jovians. He was scared and angry at how their fleet killed his fellow Martians. The Jovians behaved the way they did for a reason. They were scared. Things had not gone to plan. The situation had escalated.
He had escalated. While he only provided the recipe, he still had enabled the other prisoners to create and distribute the toxic gas. While the Jovian fleet had destroyed the Marineris and the Elysium, he destroyed three of their ships. This would only mean more fighting. For what though?
________________


Chapter 11
It was a long two weeks as Lucas travelled in his ship. He had plenty of time to reflect on what had happened. He regretted the actions he had take. He didn’t care whether he was justified, whatever that meant. He had caused harm. He hated that. His anger for the Jovians subsided. He felt that he was just as bad of a person as they were. 
He found himself feeling at times suicidal. To prevent himself from doing harm to himself, he threw his gun out the airlock. During those times, he curled himself up into a ball and thought about Chemistry to calm his nerves.
The vessel was a refitted passenger ship designed to accompany 100 or so people. The passenger seats had been repurposed for combat personnel. He assumed that these types of vessels were what were used by the soldiers who commandeered the mine. Emergency rations were plentiful. There were also the facilities to exercise, which Lucas used frequently. They also calmed his nerves.
The ship approached Mars by the end of the second week. As Lucas drew near, he could see the beautiful red sphere drawing nearer through one of the ship’s cameras. He’d never loved seeing his home planet as much as he had as his ship approached. It was as though he was seeing his world through different eyes.
He hadn’t realized how much he’d missed Mars. Tears of joy clumped around his eyes as big liquid bubbles in the zero gravity. By the time he was within 50,000 KM of Mars, Lucas tuned the radio to the Orbital Traffic Controller frequency and hailed Phobos Station. “Phobos Station, this is Defender 39 alpha, do you copy?”
“This is Phobos Station. Defender 39 alpha, we don’t have a record of your orbital glidepath request. MOTA regulations require that a glidepath request be submitted one week in advance. We might not have a place to put you.”
“Phobos Station, this is an emergency. My name is Lucas Davis. I was a Chemical Engineer working for Martian Mining Corporation on Ceres.”
“Ceres? Hold for a minute. Sir!” Lucas could tell that the Orbital Traffic Controller was signalling to someone else. “I have a Carpo FV8723 on approach claiming to have come from Ceres. Is there an MPG record on a Lucas Davis registered as employed by M2C?” Lucas could make out some sounds as the Orbital Traffic Controller discussed the situation with their supervisor. After a few minutes the Controller picked up the other line. “Ok, so we were able to bring up citizenship information on a Lucas Davis registered with M2C. We’ll need to ask you some security questions in order to verify your identity. Our apologies for the inconvenience. The Martian Planetary Government is presently at war with the Jovian Moon Coalition and so any Jovian type ships are suspect, especially ships that are armed with nuclear missiles. What country were you born in?”
“Germany,” Lucas answered.
“Where did you earn your Degree?”
“The New Paris Institute of Technology in France.”
“What is your most recent permanent address. Not including Ceres.”
“I lived on the NPIT campus in Legrange hall. Room 352.”
“What is your MPG work permit number?”
        “Hold on a second, I’ll bring that information up.” Lucas had luckily kept his work permit. He’d kept it after having switched clothes twice. “It’s 39-32-93-18-52-35-27-02-01.”
        “Ok, that’s good enough. Thank you for your cooperation. We’ll find you a glidepath. What happened on Ceres?”
        “The Jovians commandeered the mine through force. I was part of a group of prisoners who were separated from rest of the prisoners to train the replacement Jovian personnel. I collaborated with the other prisoners to make nonivamide from the materials in the mine, which we vented throughout the mine. The gas disabled the soldiers for long enough for me to escape the mine. I wound up in Ceres Station where I was able to switch places with a Jovian pilot. The Jovian was assigned this vessel. The Martians arrived while I was on patrol. So did the Jovians. The negotiations went sour, largely due to the commotion on the mine. The Jovians fired first which wiped out most of the Martian fleet. I was able to destroy three Jovian ships before I was caught by the Orbital Traffic Controller and then I traveled here.”
        “That’s not the official story,” the OTC replied. “According to the official JMC declaration of war, the Martians fired the first shots and the JMC ships responded.”
        “What I said is how it happened.”
        “OK. I’ve been looking at available orbital glide paths and it appears that we have an opening for glidepath Epsilon Theta Delta Omega 34.”
        “Thank you,” Lucas said, relieved. “The only problem is that I don’t know how to set the Orbital Glidepath for Martian Orbit. The computer is still only showing glide paths for Ceres.”
        “You don’t know how to set automatic Orbital Glide Paths on your flight computer? How did you get here?”
        “I’m a Chemical Engineer, not a pilot. I’ve been studying the manual for guidance.”
        “That violates MOTA regulations. Do you know how dangerous flying a spacecraft is when you’re untrained?”
        “Don’t lecture me on piloting, these are extenuating circumstances.”
        “OK,” the Controller let out a sigh, “Let me bring up Carpo FV8723 controls on my computer,” there was a pause, “the panel below your autopilot panel should read ‘Ceres’ at the center top along with an ‘RV’ to the left just below it. That stands for Relative Velocity. There’s a button just to the left of that with a triangle symbol on it. Do you see it?”
        “Yes,” Lucas said, eying the button.
        “If you press that button, it will bring up a selection screen with all of the Celestial Objects in the solar system we have on file. They are grouped by planetary orbits. Objects between the Sun and Mercury are under Mercury, objects between Mercury and Venus are under Venus, etc. etc. Select Mars.” Lucas pressed the screen where it read Mars. “A list will appear with Mars at the top. Select Mars. Now the screen should read ‘Mars’ at the top with a different ‘RV’ below that. Below is a series of prompts. Enter Epsilon Theta Delta Omega 34 into the prompts below.”
        Once Lucas entered his glidepath, he thanked the Controller. It was several hours from the time he talked with the Controller that he wound up in orbit around Mars. Once in orbit, he sent a request for permission to dock with Phobos Station. His story had gone around the station and so he was granted permission to dock. He was guided through the automatic docking procedures by another Controller.
        The hustle and bustle of Phobos Station was comforting. His isolation for two weeks had been unbearable. As he moved through the station, he noticed that there were new posters up on the wall that read “Remember Rho the 16th” that comforted him. What day was it now? He looked at a clock in one of the hallways. 5:32pm 18.17.625. It was a Venday[11]. 
        Lucas was in the spaceport for a few hours before he left. Once he left the doors of the spaceport, a massive throng of people were outside eager to meet him. Reporters, Journalists, and News Anchors all clamored to get pictures of him.
        “Sir, is it true that you are the only person to escape from Ceres? Are there more coming?”
        “Sir, what happened to the crews of the Elysium, the Marineris, and the Olympus?”
        “What details of the incident contradict the narrative presented to us by the JMC’s official declaration of war?”
        “How did you get back to Phobos?”
        Lucas answered as many questions as he could, vastly abbreviating the complex series of events that had occurred. He didn’t enjoy the overwhelming level of attention and the din of voices. He eventually was able to get through the crowd and onto the outgoing train. Unfortunately, some in the crowd managed to get aboard the train before it took off.
        “Hello,” one of them said, “My name is Melissa Bhat, I’m a reporter with the Martian Planetary Broadcasting Foundation. Would you mind answering a few questions?”
        Lucas sighed. “Ok, go ahead.”
        “So Lucas, you said that you escaped from the M2C mine but that you were the only one. Correct?”
        “So far as I know.”
        “Would you know what happened to the other miners?”
        “No. I don’t know what happened to the other miners. The JMC soldiers me and several other prisoners that we were to train our replacements and that once the replacements were up to speed on how to do our jobs, we were going to be deported back to Mars or Luna. However, they didn’t talk about what would happen if Mars didn’t sign over the mines on Ceres to the JMC. The other miners might either still be on Ceres or they might have been trafficked away from Ceres to a POW camp. This would probably put them on IO or some other JMC controlled Moon.”
        “I just want to say that I’m sorry for what you went through. All of Mars has been shocked that these events have taken place. All of Mars is rooting for you.”
        Lucas looked away from the reporter. His eyes had started to well up with tears. He sat there for a minute with his eyes closed. He looked forward. In front of him was another of the posters that read “Remember Rho the 16th” but this time he noticed the words below it. After staring at it for a while, he knew what he had to do. It was an intense compulsion to do something. It wasn’t a choice driven purely by necessity, but by a sudden awakening of an emotion he hadn’t felt before.
        “Enlist today.”
        
________________
[1] This is a Martian decade, which translates to approximately 18 Earth years and 10 Earth months
[2] 395 Martian years, which translates to approximately 743 Earth years
[3] 16 Martian years, which translates to approximately 30 Earth years
[4] 625 Martian years, which translates to approximately 1175 Earth years
[5] 16 Martian years ago, approximately 30 Earth years ago
[6] 5 Martian Years, approximately 9 Earth Years and 5 Months
[7] 4 Martian years. Approximately 7 Earth years and 6 months
[8] 16 Martian years, or approximately 30 Earth years
[9] 13 Martian years, approximately 25 Earth years
[10] 16 Martian years, approximately 30 Earth years
[11] Martian calendar Venday (Venus Day) translates to Earth English calendar Wednesday.
